


it took a while for the part to finnally get to me, and I managed to install the socket on the slot. Its not perfectly fit, I had to apply a small amount of force to make the pins go to the through holes, not sure if its normal. the most difficult part for me is to get rid of  the solder in the socket, some of them are very hard to melt. I installed a 24GB sata ssd just for testing and it worked. the port  supports sata 3.0 6gb. Initial test shows the drive doubles the write speed and tripples the read speed than the internal emmc. thanks to your asrock link, I installed windows 7 and it boots up really fast. Another test shows 720p 60fps youtube playback is smooth under win7.

 

as for the drivers, basically I just search the device ID:

  1, sound, keyboard, usb3, camera and some others worded out of the box.

  2, wifi, BT, card reader, intel DPTF, lenovo acpi driver would work with driver found on the internet.

  3, intel hd graphic driver (154519.4678) would work with one line code modification (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w9JofZQkxI).

 

there are some driver I did not find, unfortunately the touchpad and the internal emmc must be one of them:

the internal emmc can be recognized in ubuntu, but not in win7.

  1, 8086 5a9a         PCI Simple Communications Controller

  2, 8086 5ab0        PCI Signal processing controller

  3, 8086 5a8c        PCI Signal processing controller

  4, 8086 5aac        PCI Signal processing controller

  5, 8086 5ad4        SM Bus Controller

  6, acpi\int3452    unkowm

 

Here are some pictures for anyone interested, my soldering doesn't look good, but it works



If this is your first time to solder anything then I would strongly suggest you to practice before you try this on your real hardware, or maybe just expand your memory through a microsd card instead. The M.2 pin 0.5 mm contact pitch is very small and can be messed up if not treated carefully. I spend several hours to clear the solder in the holes and pads before soldering the socket, and it still was not perfect. Maybe easier with a lot of flux, but I don't have any.

 

Here is my exact steps:

1, unscew the bottom and the motherboard, then take out the motherboard and remove the heatsink. I lift the motherboard without taking out the battery and usb board. You could do that if you want to be on the safe side.

2, use solder wick to remove the solder from pads (upper row: 1,3,5...75) gentely. I used Rosin during the process.

3, use heat gun to blow the through holes (lower row: 2,4,6...68) on one side of the motherboard, once the solder inside the holes is melt, suck it out with solder sucker from the other side asap. This is the most difficult step for me, since pin 70,72,74 are grouped on the power rail together it takes a while to melt. I don't want to use temperatures that are too high to burn the board. If you manage to finish this part, then basically you are done.

4, clean the board and solder the connector, for my connector, I had to apply a little force for the socket to fit in notch1. I didn't clear solders in notch2 because my connector don't need to go through there.

5, solder the 4 capacitor for sata line.

 

side note:

1, maybe you don't even need step 3 since all the sata singals pins are on the upper row, plus the power rails and ground, but I don't know for sure if this works.

2, the other sata connector blow the wifi card looks eaiser to solder than this m.2 connector, if you can fit anything there. 

3, I ordered 5 connector and have 4 left, If anyone is interested just send me a PM, and I live in Germany atm.

 

here is the detailed picture, I didn't document much in the process, because there must be a lot of mistakes. and please do not hold me for responsible if accident happens :-\.

